README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/ShiftLeftSecurity/codepropertygraph.png?branch=master)](http://travis-ci.org/ShiftLeftSecurity/codepropertygraph)

# Code Property Graph - Specification and Tooling

A Code Property Graph (CPG) is an extensible and language-agnostic
representation of program code designed for incremental and
distributed code analysis. This repository hosts the base
specification together with a build process that generates data
structure definitions for accessing the graph with different
programming languages.


We are publishing the Code Property Graph specification as a
suggestion for an open standard for the exchange of code in
intermediate representations along with analysis results. With this
goal in mind, the specification consists of a minimal base schema that
can be augmented via extension schemas to enable storage of
application-specific data.

# Building the code

The build process has been verified on Linux and it should be possible
to build on OS X and BSD systems as well. The build process requires
the following prerequisites:

* Python3
  - Link: https://www.python.org/downloads/
* Java runtime 8
  - Link: http://openjdk.java.net/install/
* Scala build tool (sbt)
  - Link: https://www.scala-sbt.org/


Additional build-time dependencies are automatically downloaded as
part of the build process. To build and install into your local Maven
cache, issue the command `sbt publishM2`.

This command will install the following artifacts:

* _codepropertygraph-VERSION.jar_: Java and Scala classes to be used in combination with the ShiftLeft Tinkergraph [3].

* _codepropertygraph-protos-VERSION.jar_: Java bindings for Google's Protocol Buffer definitions

# Creating Protocol Buffer bindings for different languages

The _codepropertygraph-VERSION.jar_ artifact contains a Protocol Buffer definition file _cpg.proto_ that you
can use to generate your own language-specific bindings. For instance, to create C++ and Python bindings, issue the following series of commands:

```
sbt package
cd codepropertygraph/target
unzip codepropertygraph-*.jar cpg.proto
mkdir cpp python
protoc --cpp_out=cpp --python_out=python cpg.proto
```

# Base schema for the Code Property Graph

The original paper on Code Property Graphs [2] is primarily
concerned with exploring the capabilities of the Code Property Graph representation, but
does not provide a strict schema for such graphs. This specification
provides the missing schema, thereby creating a verifiable exchange
format.

The Code Property Graph is a directed, edge-labeled, attributed
multigraph, or property graph for short (see [1]). A property graph
is the generic data structure underlying many contemporary graph
databases (e.g., Tinkergraph, Neo4J, Janusgraph). As a result, data
representations based on property graphs are immediately amenable
to graph database technologies.

Property graphs alone are comparable in generality to hash tables and
linked lists. To tailor them towards storing, transmitting, and
analyzing code, the main challenge is to specify a suitable graph
schema. In particular, a schema must define the valid node and edge
types, node and edge keys, together with each of their domains.
Finally, it puts constraints on the types of edges that may
connect nodes, depending on their type(s).

In the following, we describe the base schema of the Code Property Graph.
The base schema provides the minimum requirements all valid Code Property Graphs must satisfy.
The base specification is concerned with three aspects of the program:

  1. *Program structure*
  1. *Type declarations*
  1. *Method declarations*

In the following sections,
we first give a brief overview of the graph's node and edge types and
proceed to describe each of the three aspects in greater detail.

> ***Note about property graphs:*** We deviate from the original
definition by (a) referring to edge labels as *edge types*, and (b)
requiring each node to have a mandatory node type. The node type can
be represented by a node attribute. Compatibility with the property
graph model as used by graph databases is therefore not sacrificed.

> ***Note about terminology:*** the term *declaration* is employed by us
as in the specification of the Java language, where a declaration
comprises a formal signature, along with defining content such as a
method body for methods or a literal value in the definition of a
variable. This stands in contrast to the use of the term *declaration*
in the C and C++ languages, where a declaration is only a formal signature.

## Overview

The base schema of the Code Property Graph is specified in the JSON
file
[_base.json_](codepropertygraph/src/main/resources/schemas/base.json).
The file contains a JSON object with the following members:

* `nodeKeys/edgeKeys` is a list of all valid node/edge attributes.
  Each list element is an object specifying the attribute's id, name,
  its type, and a comment.

* `nodeTypes/edgeTypes` is a list of all node/edge types, where each
  node/edge type is given by an object that specifies an id, name,
  keys, comment, and, for node types, valid outgoing edge types.

There are a total of 20 node types across 5 categories:

Category          | Names
------------------| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Program structure | FILE, NAMESPACE_BLOCK
Type declarations | TYPE_DECL, TYPE_PARAMETER, MEMBER, TYPE, TYPE_ARGUMENT
Method header     | METHOD, METHOD_PARAMETER_IN, METHOD_RETURN, LOCAL, BLOCK, MODIFIER
Method body       | LITERAL, IDENTIFIER, CALL, RETURN, METHOD_INST, METHOD_REF
Meta data         | META_DATA


There are a total of 6 edge types:

Name | Usage
-----|----------------------------------------------------------------
AST  | Syntax tree edge - structure
CFG  | Control flow edge - execution order and conditions
REF  | Reference edge - references to type/method/identifier declarations
CALL | Method invocation edge - caller/callee relationship
VTABLE | Virtual method table edge - represents vtables
BINDS_TO | Binding edge - provides type parameters

There are a total of 17 node keys across 4 categories:

Category       | Names
---------------| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Declarations   | NAME, FULL_NAME, IS_EXTERNAL
Method header  | SIGNATURE, MODIFIER_TYPE |
Method body    | PARSER_TYPE_NAME, ORDER, CODE, DISPATCH_TYPE, EVALUATION_STRATEGY,LINE_NUMBER, LINE_NUMBER_END, COLUMN_NUMBER,COLUMN_NUMBER_END, ARGUMENT_INDEX
Meta data      | LANGUAGE, VERSION

There is zero edge keys in the base specification.

> We deviate from the JSON standard by allowing inline comments. Any
line for which the first two non-whitespace characters are equal to
`/`, are treated as comments and need to be stripped prior to passing
the definitions to standard JSON parsers.

## Program structure

Node types: FILE, NAMESPACE_BLOCK

Program structure is concerned with the organization of programs into
files, namespaces, and packages. A program is composed of zero or more
files (type FILE), each of which contains one or more namespace blocks
(type NAMESPACE_BLOCK). Namespace blocks contain type and method
declarations (type TYPE_DECL and METHOD). Abstract syntax tree (AST) edges must exist
from files to namespace blocks and from namespace blocks to the type
and method declarations they contain. The figure below shows how a
Java class definition is represented in a Code Property Graph.

![Program Structure](images/cpg-internal-1.png)

The concept of namespace blocks correspond to the equivalent
concepts in the C++ programming language, where namespace blocks are
used to place declarations into a namespace. Other languages, e.g.,
Java or Python, do not provide the same type of namespace blocks. However, they allow
package declarations at the start of source files that serve the
purpose of placing all remaining declarations of the source file into
a namespace. We translate package declarations into corresponding
namespace blocks for these languages.

## Type declarations

Node types: TYPE_DECL, TYPE_PARAMETER, MEMBER, TYPE, TYPE_ARGUMENT

We express language constructs that declare types via *type declarations*. Examples of these constructs include classes, interfaces, structures, and
enumerations. A type declaration consists of a name, an optional list
for type parameters, member variables, and methods. Finally,
inheritance relations with other types may be encoded in *type declarations* as shown below.

![Program Structure](images/cpg-internal-2.png)

In the Code Property Graph, each type declaration is represented by a
designated type-declaration node (type TYPE_DECL), with at least a
full-name attribute. Member variables (type MEMBER), method declarations
(type METHOD), and type parameters (type TYPE_PARAMETER) are
connected to the type declaration via AST edges, originating at the
type declaration. Inheritance relations are expressed by possibly multiple
type full name properties (type INHERITS_FROM_TYPE_FULL_NAME) indicating
derived from TYPE.

Usage of a type, for example in the declaration of a variable, is indicated
by a type node (type TYPE). A type (type TYPE) is associated to a type
declaration (type TYPE_DECL) via the declarations fullname (type
TYPE_DECL_FULL_NAME). Furthermore a type can specify type arguments nodes
(type TYPE_ARGUMENT) which are connected to it via AST edges. Note that you
can specify multiple identical TYPE nodes and the backend will deduplicate
those. This allows frontend to not hold a global type table. Finally,
type-argument nodes are connected to type parameters via binding edges
(type BINDS_TO).

## Method declarations

A method declaration consists of a method header and a method body,
where the declaration is a graph representation of the method's input
and output parameters, and the method body contains the
instructions/statements of the method.

### Method header

Node types: METHOD, METHOD_PARAMETER_IN, METHOD_RETURN, LOCAL, BLOCK, MODIFIER

The term *method* is used in object-oriented programming languages to
refer to a procedure that is associated with a class. We use the term
in a broader sense to refer to any named block of code. This code may
or may not be defined to be associated with a type. The method
consists of a method header and a method body. The method header is
given by a name, a formal return parameter, and finally, a list of
formal input parameters and corresponding output parameters. The
method body is simply a block of statements as illustrated below.

![Program Structure](images/cpg-internal-3.png)

In the Code Property Graph, we represent each method by a designated
method node (type METHOD) that contains the method name in
particular. Methods are connected to their method input parameters
(type METHOD_PARAMETER_IN), return parameter (type METHOD_RETURN),
modifiers (type MODIFIER), and locals (type LOCAL) via AST edges.
Finally, the method node is connected to a block node (type BLOCK),
which represents the method body. The figure above shows a sample
method along with a representation of its method header in the code
property graph.

<!-- Input parameters can be connected to output parameters or the return -->
<!-- parameter via DFG edges to indicate data flow. These edges serve to -->
<!-- (a) encode data flow relations that cannot be derived from the code -->
<!-- automatically due to calls into external libraries, and (b) as summary -->
<!-- edges that store results of data flow analysis for subsequent -->
<!-- queries. -->

### Method body

Node types: LITERAL, IDENTIFIER, CALL, RETURN, METHOD_INST, METHOD_REF

Method bodies contain the method implementation, given by the
operations the method carries out. We represent method bodies as
control flow graphs over method invocations, a representation we
arrive at to provide a common ground for the instruction, statement,
and expression concepts used across machine-level and high-level
programming languages. The core elements of the method body
representation are thus (a) method invocations ("calls"), and
control-flow edges.

In the Code Property Graph, we represent a method invocation via a
designated call node (type CALL). Arguments are either identifiers
(type IDENTIFIER), literals (type LITERAL), other calls (type CALL),
or method references (type METHOD_REF). Each argument has an argument
index property (type ARGUMENT_INDEX) to indicate which parameter it is
associated with. Calls are connected to their arguments via outgoing
AST edges, and are associated with their corrsponding method-instance
(type METHOD_INST) via their METHOD_INST_FULL_NAME property.
Method-instance nodes represent concrete instantiations of method
declarations, that is, method declarations along with type parameters.
Method nodes are connected to type arguments (type TYPE_ARGUMENT) via
AST edges, and are associated with their corresponding method via their
METHOD_FULL_NAME property.

![Call Site](images/cpg-internal-4.png)

In addition to identifiers, literals, and calls, we allow method
references (type METHOD_REF) to represent locations in the code where a
method is not called, but referenced, as is the case for programming
languages where methods are first-class citizens. Method references
are connected to method instances via reference edges (type REF).

We proceed to create return nodes (type RETURN) for each location in
the method body where control is returned to the caller. Unconditional
control flow edges are created from preceding calls to return nodes.
All remaining nodes are connected via control flow edges (type
CFG) according to execution order and constraints. The method node is
treated as the entry node of the control flow graph. Finally, we
create a designated block node (type BLOCK) for the method body, and
create outgoing AST edges to all expressions that correspond to
statements.

### Background on the method body representation

In machine-level languages, procedure bodies are defined by
instructions and connected by control flow edges to form a control flow
graph. Each instruction represents an operation carried out by the
machine, which can modify the program state. In contrast, higher-level
languages (C and above) typically eliminate the instruction concept in
favor of statements. As for instructions, statements can modify the
program state. They differ from instructions in that they can consist
of multiple expressions. Expressions are anonymous blocks of code that
receive input and produce an output value upon evaluation. Inputs to
an expression can be literals and identifiers, but they may also be
other expressions. In fact, the semantics of statements can be fully
encoded via expression trees, and control flow edges attached to
the roots of these trees, to represent the statement's control flow
semantics.

The ability of a statement to represent several expressions allows for
concise program formulation. However, it presents challenges to
program analysis. While it is possible to create a control flow graph
by introducing control flow edges between statements, this graph does
not encode the intra-statement control flow. Fortunately, the tree combined
with disambiguation rules of the programming language fully encodes the
evaluation order of expressions within a statement. This allows us to
unambiguously represent their evaluation order with control flow edges.

Expressions consist of method evaluations and applications of
operators provided by the language. By expressing operators as methods
and allowing methods to receive the return values of other methods as
input, all expressions can be represented as method invocations. We
thus arrive at a program representation for the method body, which
consists of method invocations connected via control flow edges.

## Meta data block

We include a metadata block (type META_DATA) in Code Property Graph
with two fields: a language field (key LANGUAGE) to indicate the
programming language the graph was generated from, and a version field
(key VERSION) holding the specification version. Both fields are
free-text strings.


<!-- # Extending the specification -->

<!-- The build process creates the final graph schema by merging all JSON -->
<!-- files in the directory `src/main/resources/schemas/`. This makes it -->
<!-- possible for developers of program analysis tools to extend the graph -->
<!-- definition by providing additional JSON files. On the graph side, it -->
<!-- also provides the basis for augmenting the graph with additional -->
<!-- layers later in the processing pipeline for code analysis systems. -->


# References

[1]  Rodriguez and Neubauer - The Graph Traversal Pattern:
   https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/ae6d/dcba8c848dd0a30a30c5a895cbb491c9e445.pdf

[2] Yamaguchi et al. - Modeling and Discovering Vulnerabilities with Code Property Graphs
    https://www.sec.cs.tu-bs.de/pubs/2014-ieeesp.pdf

[3] The ShiftLeft Tinkergraph
    https://github.com/ShiftLeftSecurity/tinkergraph-gremlin

Commit message:

Structural AST linkage changes.
The AST parents of METHOD and TYPE_DECL nodes are now given as
properties instead of linking them directly in the frontend.

The newly introduced properties are AST_PARENT_TYPE and
AST_PARENT_FULL_NAME.

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/ShiftLeftSecurity/codepropertygraph.png?branch=master)](http://travis-ci.org/ShiftLeftSecurity/codepropertygraph)

# Code Property Graph - Specification and Tooling

A Code Property Graph (CPG) is an extensible and language-agnostic
representation of program code designed for incremental and
distributed code analysis. This repository hosts the base
specification together with a build process that generates data
structure definitions for accessing the graph with different
programming languages.


We are publishing the Code Property Graph specification as a
suggestion for an open standard for the exchange of code in
intermediate representations along with analysis results. With this
goal in mind, the specification consists of a minimal base schema that
can be augmented via extension schemas to enable storage of
application-specific data.

# Building the code

The build process has been verified on Linux and it should be possible
to build on OS X and BSD systems as well. The build process requires
the following prerequisites:

* Python3
  - Link: https://www.python.org/downloads/
* Java runtime 8
  - Link: http://openjdk.java.net/install/
* Scala build tool (sbt)
  - Link: https://www.scala-sbt.org/


Additional build-time dependencies are automatically downloaded as
part of the build process. To build and install into your local Maven
cache, issue the command `sbt publishM2`.

This command will install the following artifacts:

* _codepropertygraph-VERSION.jar_: Java and Scala classes to be used in combination with the ShiftLeft Tinkergraph [3].

* _codepropertygraph-protos-VERSION.jar_: Java bindings for Google's Protocol Buffer definitions

# Creating Protocol Buffer bindings for different languages

The _codepropertygraph-VERSION.jar_ artifact contains a Protocol Buffer definition file _cpg.proto_ that you
can use to generate your own language-specific bindings. For instance, to create C++ and Python bindings, issue the following series of commands:

```
sbt package
cd codepropertygraph/target
unzip codepropertygraph-*.jar cpg.proto
mkdir cpp python
protoc --cpp_out=cpp --python_out=python cpg.proto
```

# Base schema for the Code Property Graph

The original paper on Code Property Graphs [2] is primarily
concerned with exploring the capabilities of the Code Property Graph representation, but
does not provide a strict schema for such graphs. This specification
provides the missing schema, thereby creating a verifiable exchange
format.

The Code Property Graph is a directed, edge-labeled, attributed
multigraph, or property graph for short (see [1]). A property graph
is the generic data structure underlying many contemporary graph
databases (e.g., Tinkergraph, Neo4J, Janusgraph). As a result, data
representations based on property graphs are immediately amenable
to graph database technologies.

Property graphs alone are comparable in generality to hash tables and
linked lists. To tailor them towards storing, transmitting, and
analyzing code, the main challenge is to specify a suitable graph
schema. In particular, a schema must define the valid node and edge
types, node and edge keys, together with each of their domains.
Finally, it puts constraints on the types of edges that may
connect nodes, depending on their type(s).

In the following, we describe the base schema of the Code Property Graph.
The base schema provides the minimum requirements all valid Code Property Graphs must satisfy.
The base specification is concerned with three aspects of the program:

  1. *Program structure*
  1. *Type declarations*
  1. *Method declarations*

In the following sections,
we first give a brief overview of the graph's node and edge types and
proceed to describe each of the three aspects in greater detail.

> ***Note about property graphs:*** We deviate from the original
definition by (a) referring to edge labels as *edge types*, and (b)
requiring each node to have a mandatory node type. The node type can
be represented by a node attribute. Compatibility with the property
graph model as used by graph databases is therefore not sacrificed.

> ***Note about terminology:*** the term *declaration* is employed by us
as in the specification of the Java language, where a declaration
comprises a formal signature, along with defining content such as a
method body for methods or a literal value in the definition of a
variable. This stands in contrast to the use of the term *declaration*
in the C and C++ languages, where a declaration is only a formal signature.

## Overview

The base schema of the Code Property Graph is specified in the JSON
file
[_base.json_](codepropertygraph/src/main/resources/schemas/base.json).
The file contains a JSON object with the following members:

* `nodeKeys/edgeKeys` is a list of all valid node/edge attributes.
  Each list element is an object specifying the attribute's id, name,
  its type, and a comment.

* `nodeTypes/edgeTypes` is a list of all node/edge types, where each
  node/edge type is given by an object that specifies an id, name,
  keys, comment, and, for node types, valid outgoing edge types.

There are a total of 20 node types across 5 categories:

Category          | Names
------------------| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Program structure | FILE, NAMESPACE_BLOCK
Type declarations | TYPE_DECL, TYPE_PARAMETER, MEMBER, TYPE, TYPE_ARGUMENT
Method header     | METHOD, METHOD_PARAMETER_IN, METHOD_RETURN, LOCAL, BLOCK, MODIFIER
Method body       | LITERAL, IDENTIFIER, CALL, RETURN, METHOD_INST, METHOD_REF
Meta data         | META_DATA


There are a total of 6 edge types:

Name | Usage
-----|----------------------------------------------------------------
AST  | Syntax tree edge - structure
CFG  | Control flow edge - execution order and conditions
REF  | Reference edge - references to type/method/identifier declarations
CALL | Method invocation edge - caller/callee relationship
VTABLE | Virtual method table edge - represents vtables
BINDS_TO | Binding edge - provides type parameters

There are a total of 17 node keys across 4 categories:

Category       | Names
---------------| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Declarations   | NAME, FULL_NAME, IS_EXTERNAL
Method header  | SIGNATURE, MODIFIER_TYPE |
Method body    | PARSER_TYPE_NAME, ORDER, CODE, DISPATCH_TYPE, EVALUATION_STRATEGY,LINE_NUMBER, LINE_NUMBER_END, COLUMN_NUMBER,COLUMN_NUMBER_END, ARGUMENT_INDEX
Meta data      | LANGUAGE, VERSION

There is zero edge keys in the base specification.

> We deviate from the JSON standard by allowing inline comments. Any
line for which the first two non-whitespace characters are equal to
`/`, are treated as comments and need to be stripped prior to passing
the definitions to standard JSON parsers.

## Program structure

Node types: FILE, NAMESPACE_BLOCK

Program structure is concerned with the organization of programs into
files, namespaces, and packages. A program is composed of zero or more
files (type FILE), each of which contains one or more namespace blocks
(type NAMESPACE_BLOCK). Namespace blocks contain type and method
declarations (type TYPE_DECL and METHOD). Abstract syntax tree (AST) edges must exist
from files to namespace blocks. Structural elements below namespce blocks
are not connected to their AST parents by an edge. Instead the AST_PARENT_TYPE
and AST_PARENT_FULL_NAME properties are used to inform the backend about the
AST relation of methods (type METHOD) and type declarations (type TYPE_DECL) to
their parents. The property FULL_NAME thereby must be a unique identifier for
the 3 node types METHOD, TYPE_DECL and NAMESPACE_BLOCK. The figure below shows how a
Java class definition is represented in a Code Property Graph.

![Program Structure](images/cpg-internal-1.png)

The concept of namespace blocks correspond to the equivalent
concepts in the C++ programming language, where namespace blocks are
used to place declarations into a namespace. Other languages, e.g.,
Java or Python, do not provide the same type of namespace blocks. However, they allow
package declarations at the start of source files that serve the
purpose of placing all remaining declarations of the source file into
a namespace. We translate package declarations into corresponding
namespace blocks for these languages.

## Type declarations

Node types: TYPE_DECL, TYPE_PARAMETER, MEMBER, TYPE, TYPE_ARGUMENT

We express language constructs that declare types via *type declarations*. Examples of these constructs include classes, interfaces, structures, and
enumerations. A type declaration consists of a name, an optional list
for type parameters, member variables, and methods. Finally,
inheritance relations with other types may be encoded in *type declarations* as shown below.

![Program Structure](images/cpg-internal-2.png)

In the Code Property Graph, each type declaration is represented by a
designated type-declaration node (type TYPE_DECL), with at least a
full-name attribute. Member variables (type MEMBER), method declarations
(type METHOD), and type parameters (type TYPE_PARAMETER) are
connected to the type declaration via AST edges, originating at the
type declaration. Inheritance relations are expressed by possibly multiple
type full name properties (type INHERITS_FROM_TYPE_FULL_NAME) indicating
derived from TYPE.

Usage of a type, for example in the declaration of a variable, is indicated
by a type node (type TYPE). A type (type TYPE) is associated to a type
declaration (type TYPE_DECL) via the declarations fullname (type
TYPE_DECL_FULL_NAME). Furthermore a type can specify type arguments nodes
(type TYPE_ARGUMENT) which are connected to it via AST edges. Note that you
can specify multiple identical TYPE nodes and the backend will deduplicate
those. This allows frontend to not hold a global type table. Finally,
type-argument nodes are connected to type parameters via binding edges
(type BINDS_TO).

## Method declarations

A method declaration consists of a method header and a method body,
where the declaration is a graph representation of the method's input
and output parameters, and the method body contains the
instructions/statements of the method.

### Method header

Node types: METHOD, METHOD_PARAMETER_IN, METHOD_RETURN, LOCAL, BLOCK, MODIFIER

The term *method* is used in object-oriented programming languages to
refer to a procedure that is associated with a class. We use the term
in a broader sense to refer to any named block of code. This code may
or may not be defined to be associated with a type. The method
consists of a method header and a method body. The method header is
given by a name, a formal return parameter, and finally, a list of
formal input parameters and corresponding output parameters. The
method body is simply a block of statements as illustrated below.

![Program Structure](images/cpg-internal-3.png)

In the Code Property Graph, we represent each method by a designated
method node (type METHOD) that contains the method name in
particular. Methods are connected to their method input parameters
(type METHOD_PARAMETER_IN), return parameter (type METHOD_RETURN),
modifiers (type MODIFIER), and locals (type LOCAL) via AST edges.
Finally, the method node is connected to a block node (type BLOCK),
which represents the method body. The figure above shows a sample
method along with a representation of its method header in the code
property graph.

<!-- Input parameters can be connected to output parameters or the return -->
<!-- parameter via DFG edges to indicate data flow. These edges serve to -->
<!-- (a) encode data flow relations that cannot be derived from the code -->
<!-- automatically due to calls into external libraries, and (b) as summary -->
<!-- edges that store results of data flow analysis for subsequent -->
<!-- queries. -->

### Method body

Node types: LITERAL, IDENTIFIER, CALL, RETURN, METHOD_INST, METHOD_REF

Method bodies contain the method implementation, given by the
operations the method carries out. We represent method bodies as
control flow graphs over method invocations, a representation we
arrive at to provide a common ground for the instruction, statement,
and expression concepts used across machine-level and high-level
programming languages. The core elements of the method body
representation are thus (a) method invocations ("calls"), and
control-flow edges.

In the Code Property Graph, we represent a method invocation via a
designated call node (type CALL). Arguments are either identifiers
(type IDENTIFIER), literals (type LITERAL), other calls (type CALL),
or method references (type METHOD_REF). Each argument has an argument
index property (type ARGUMENT_INDEX) to indicate which parameter it is
associated with. Calls are connected to their arguments via outgoing
AST edges, and are associated with their corrsponding method-instance
(type METHOD_INST) via their METHOD_INST_FULL_NAME property.
Method-instance nodes represent concrete instantiations of method
declarations, that is, method declarations along with type parameters.
Method nodes are connected to type arguments (type TYPE_ARGUMENT) via
AST edges, and are associated with their corresponding method via their
METHOD_FULL_NAME property.

![Call Site](images/cpg-internal-4.png)

In addition to identifiers, literals, and calls, we allow method
references (type METHOD_REF) to represent locations in the code where a
method is not called, but referenced, as is the case for programming
languages where methods are first-class citizens. Method references
are connected to method instances via reference edges (type REF).

We proceed to create return nodes (type RETURN) for each location in
the method body where control is returned to the caller. Unconditional
control flow edges are created from preceding calls to return nodes.
All remaining nodes are connected via control flow edges (type
CFG) according to execution order and constraints. The method node is
treated as the entry node of the control flow graph. Finally, we
create a designated block node (type BLOCK) for the method body, and
create outgoing AST edges to all expressions that correspond to
statements.

### Background on the method body representation

In machine-level languages, procedure bodies are defined by
instructions and connected by control flow edges to form a control flow
graph. Each instruction represents an operation carried out by the
machine, which can modify the program state. In contrast, higher-level
languages (C and above) typically eliminate the instruction concept in
favor of statements. As for instructions, statements can modify the
program state. They differ from instructions in that they can consist
of multiple expressions. Expressions are anonymous blocks of code that
receive input and produce an output value upon evaluation. Inputs to
an expression can be literals and identifiers, but they may also be
other expressions. In fact, the semantics of statements can be fully
encoded via expression trees, and control flow edges attached to
the roots of these trees, to represent the statement's control flow
semantics.

The ability of a statement to represent several expressions allows for
concise program formulation. However, it presents challenges to
program analysis. While it is possible to create a control flow graph
by introducing control flow edges between statements, this graph does
not encode the intra-statement control flow. Fortunately, the tree combined
with disambiguation rules of the programming language fully encodes the
evaluation order of expressions within a statement. This allows us to
unambiguously represent their evaluation order with control flow edges.

Expressions consist of method evaluations and applications of
operators provided by the language. By expressing operators as methods
and allowing methods to receive the return values of other methods as
input, all expressions can be represented as method invocations. We
thus arrive at a program representation for the method body, which
consists of method invocations connected via control flow edges.

## Meta data block

We include a metadata block (type META_DATA) in Code Property Graph
with two fields: a language field (key LANGUAGE) to indicate the
programming language the graph was generated from, and a version field
(key VERSION) holding the specification version. Both fields are
free-text strings.


<!-- # Extending the specification -->

<!-- The build process creates the final graph schema by merging all JSON -->
<!-- files in the directory `src/main/resources/schemas/`. This makes it -->
<!-- possible for developers of program analysis tools to extend the graph -->
<!-- definition by providing additional JSON files. On the graph side, it -->
<!-- also provides the basis for augmenting the graph with additional -->
<!-- layers later in the processing pipeline for code analysis systems. -->


# References

[1]  Rodriguez and Neubauer - The Graph Traversal Pattern:
   https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/ae6d/dcba8c848dd0a30a30c5a895cbb491c9e445.pdf

[2] Yamaguchi et al. - Modeling and Discovering Vulnerabilities with Code Property Graphs
    https://www.sec.cs.tu-bs.de/pubs/2014-ieeesp.pdf

[3] The ShiftLeft Tinkergraph
    https://github.com/ShiftLeftSecurity/tinkergraph-gremlin
